foreign
thank you so much and you know thank you
to Jason and the team for having me
broadcast here from Sunny Colorado
as always you know privilege not only to
be involved with saster but always you
know
um truly my honor to have such an
esteemed audience as well
um as was called out here you know I've
had I feel at least an interesting
career Arc
um most recently at three companies that
that really do live and breathe customer
accounts
um I let our sales efforts globally at
10 grid where we had about 80 000
customers
um then the go to market integration of
sangrin matulio the acquisition
um plus building out their mid-market
segment where we had over 200 000
customers
and fast forward to digitalocean now
where I lead all of our customer facing
teams
um and have the honor of serving over
600 000 customers
um with really you know the common theme
it's read across all these is you know
distribution of adverse revenue for
customer or for unit right ASP Etc but
also a really strong and efficient go to
market machine
um and what this does effectively across
these multiple hundreds or multiple ten
thousands of customers is makes your
customers have your best sales people
so you know what is the digital option
or what we term is do what do we do
um to really boil it down yeah we
simplified cloud computing Computing for
primarily SMB customers you know
Associated entrepreneurs and developers
uh that comes in the form of outcome
oriented Solutions right so that those
are built on
um foundational infrastructure and these
customers are all building all sorts of
apps that you can see here
um that you're using every day as well
right so there's a good chance in your
day-to-day life
um that you are somehow someway
interfacing with digitalocean as it was
with Sangria and twilio in their past
lives as well so these include you know
web apps websites AIML you know managed
hosting services and hosting providers
as well as you know overall developer
tools you know again to advance the
mission
um you know the reason I love why I love
you really were able to empower or
enable people to build their dreams on
top of our on top of our company
yeah so what right like you you came
here to learn about getting customers
and getting lost the customers
um you know at the end it kind of turns
out that that it's the math game
um we all know that that go to market
tends to be you know very much like hey
how many at bats do we get how can we
get that hit rate up and then ultimately
land and expand those Associated
customers but if you start with a larger
tan that math game becomes you know it
creatively and infinitely easier
um just based on ratios
so as I mentioned you know we
serve smbs um you know there are
millions of smbs across the globe that
are underserved by many or most
um and the compounding effect is that we
have you know 14 million of new smbs
that are created globally every year so
if you kind of look at that you know
from a perspective of hey there's 43
million developers out there and that's
obviously uh compounding uh every year
coupled with 100 million current smvs
globally and the 14 million of smbs
every year the 600 000 customers I
mentioned earlier that really doesn't
even sound like a lot
um so we we even at Deo um with that 600
000 customer base even have a long way
to go
and you know the the reason they come to
do
um is you know these customers you know
based on volume velocity and kind of the
way they do business
um they just need different things you
know the global global 2000 Enterprise
is a very finite uh thing I've sold into
that and and been an employee of many or
a few rather and
um these the smbs and the smaller
customers across the velocity business
you know they they're really longing for
Simplicity pricing and great support
um and it's it's really in my mind
straightforward to think about you know
especially if you put yourself
um and the customer at the nucleus of
everything we do
so smbs you know they're working with
less resources smaller teams you know
they want to get their infrastructure
and their apps and everything up and
running quickly
um they want to be able to focus on
their business
um and so when you kind of look at it
internally and take an outside interview
it's it's a lot easier to just say like
hey have I made my product easy to use
can the cons can the customer consume
the way they want to buy you know do
they know what their bill will be at the
end of the month
um or is it a Labyrinth of Lifeline
items to to decipher in a really
frustrating manner that obviously
imparts and it departs and implex uh CX
customer experience in the wrong way
yeah and then lastly support right like
my gosh and you know SMD smds don't have
large developer teams you know they they
have a lot more challenges that arise on
every every day and they look for fast
and personalized support right so when
you kind of look at the three major
tenets
um this is how I kind of segment for how
we go to market and what I really our
value prop is against you know again
some of the higher velocity and
individual businesses that we have
so if you kind of like you know um Jason
and Daniel for this but it's like if you
if you entered Jason's favorite Mantra
which is product Market fit
um we fit squarely in the middle right
we we fit there with our just right
approach for smbs
um as I mentioned right like because
they don't have they don't need to spend
and don't want the complexity of kind of
Enterprise focused stuff but we also
don't have the fluff but we don't have
any monster gaps either and that's you
know can you know completely dovetailed
into those three earlier Penance that I
mentioned on the last slide you know
keeping it simple
um transparent and you know having
outsized and over rotated if you will
support for your customers
you know at sandgrid uh when we're
acquired we had just released in act two
um when when when twilley came and
bought us
um and then at Willy obviously we had
over 15 plus follow-ons as far as its
product Suite
um and what you can see here at do is is
a similar path as far as like our
product roadmap and I want to make it
very clear that you know our our
customer Journey has effectively
inflected and or certainly influenced
this
um so you know we've layered up quite a
bit and it's not just about like the
overall product fit you know it's about
layering them on at the right time
um with the right return for your for
your ideal customer profile
um as I mentioned I mean our product our
product roadmap here in this case many
in many ways mirrors the customer
Journey
um and so we're layering on the right
products at the right time but also
Across The Right Use cases and we
started back in 2012 where it was a
simple virtual machine that was really
designed for for a developer
um an individual developer we moved all
the way up through through our
serverless functions and premium
droplets you know with databases Etc so
so it's kind of allowing the go to
market team to to interlock if you will
with a product team to to Really
influence this um this overall Arc of
the of the product roadmap
you know so it's not just kind of about
me talking here right it's just like oh
that's all great Cliff but you know at
the end
um you know here's the tale of tape
right focus and conviction Works
um you can see the growth in the ARR you
can see a lot of the
um you know just kind of overall
customer growth Etc but one you know one
thing I would I would really call out um
to the Forefront is the last but bullet
you know our customers that spend over
fifty dollars just fifty dollars right
we're not talking about any countless
here Etc a month you know outpace our
company growth
and the reason for that is they started
small
and we held their hand hand through
their own internal and value prop uh uh
journey and made them successful with
with again that Simplicity and support
right so you see like they you know
their nrr their ndr if you will
um is is a factor higher
um than than our lower spending
customers and so it all comes down to
like how are we holding their hand
um through their process and and making
them again successful with with
multi-products but then also you know
filling the top of the funnel
um with with net new customers at each
and every month which I'll get to it a
couple slides
you know so it you're all saying like
yeah great job Cliff all right that's
all it sounds good for do but what does
that mean for me
um well there there is a what and how
coming up here and at the end it's not
rocket science but it does require a
little bit of patience but also like
very Cadence and calculated thought and
you know this is kind of the the what
for us
um and potentially you too
should be around
um
Landing your customers in our case
developers and smds mostly smds yeah
with outcome oriented messaging and
prescriptive Journey right and so that
might be through ftos or free trial
offers or basic sandbox right where
they're just like playing around and and
really like trying you out
um and yeah I think an important concept
that oftentimes and X is a service if
you will
um that we shy away from is is allowing
that free trial or or basic packages and
become a rate limiter you know do not
let that happen
um we've seen many many people's not
only in my own business in our own
business here but you know across
corollary
um businesses where you know they've
really like used the free trial offer as
as a springboard
um and as an accelerant yeah and so if
it is a developer an individual
um yeah we encourage them to bring do to
work and you know proliferate that her
experience across you know their place
of work as well uh if an smv it's that
conversion of the fto or free trial
offer to pay that creates an uplift and
an overall customer value
um and that is that point is a very key
inflection
um where we expand via sales assisted if
you will motion with more use cases
multi-product attached hey have you
thought about this you know learning
really for
um about the the business and and kind
of their overall roadmap and goals
in a more pictorial way
um you know yes this is the the time
tested and and through uh land and
expand motion but the difference here is
this is this is with efficiency layered
in right it's not just a traditional
sales model across okay we're going to
go outbound we're going to hunt if you
will and Prospect customer lists Etc
um bring them on the platform and and
expand accordingly that does in in many
ways work with an overall Enterprise
because you have a finite limit right
you have a global 2000 there's a list
when there's 14 million businesses you
know consumed uh created every year you
have to get creative you have to get it
efficient
and you know bringing in volumes of
customers through our self-serve Channel
you know I.E Revenue marketing is one of
the E unlocks here
we bring over 30 000 customers a month
in Via self-serve you know think about
that you know and sometimes I think
about it like portfolio companies wish
they had 30 000 customers total and this
is what we're doing in a month now yes
again at that lower dollar threshold but
we're using the stickiness in order to
allow um in order to bring them on the
platform as well as make them success
which I'll get to in a second the
difference though is we enrich with data
um every single customer
that comes through that funnel
to determine propensity
and if they would benefit from a human
touch right and if you will sales
assistant you know the other channel of
course is like your full-blown sales
Channel you know because in a more
complex World your your prospect needs
the handling and in some ways they're
expecting it so it makes sense to have
sales layered in and either you know for
higher higher complex technical aspects
you know or bigger ticket potential and
propensity over time
so you know those are two ways to get
the customers in the tent there's the
highly efficient self-serve if you will
of Revenue marketing which should be
highly interlocked into your sales plays
and campaigns and and value prop
um but then you know once we get in the
tent so to speak you know it's our job
to make them successful that's our job
to
um grow their business but it's also our
job and go to market to grow the revenue
uh and this is a very discreet and
deliberate motion and that requires
Focus that requires intent you know for
retention and expansion and so success
you know here in this case is to help
the multi-product attach and adoption
you know an overall success in the
platform right we have a very uh finite
team there
um to make sure that that you know they
are successful we pour more and more
customers on top of that bucket every
single month
then we have account management of
course across the entire spectrum of the
customer and and then then support right
I mean do not sleep on support
uh and and the importance of it you know
that it kind of goes well at saying but
the flip side to that are I would say
maybe the dovetail that is support as a
lead Source
um is is incredibly valuable valuable
our support function talks to more
customers than anyone in our business
you know so why wouldn't we believe that
hey you know this customer is looking to
do x y and z
um it's not necessarily a problem with
the platform it's actually like they're
looking for help in order to grow with
digitalocean
so if you kind of look at this in a real
life example
um yeah we had a customer that came in
yeah and I have arrows pointing here
um accordingly with the Honda box or two
in this case you know 276 dollars is
spent to be exact and they came in and
said okay I'll try out digital auction
and we spun up a bunch of droplets which
are virtual machines
um and said okay you know we'll dabble
around
we insert a little bit of
um triggers with our Revenue marketing
team to say hey this is a real customer
that could benefit over time
um with adding load balancers forget the
technical jargon these are just
additional uh products to help the value
and help streamline their business so uh
you know so oh that looks cool we'll add
load bouncers this is without any human
interaction by the way it's like okay
this is you know through digital
nurturing this is through the efficiency
funnel that I mentioned earlier
then oh yeah we need a database cool and
that also came in through digital
learning and then it became very very
clear you know this is a customer that
um we can help inflect their Journey we
can help become more efficient and
optimized and layer in a sales assisted
touch and the rest is history all right
so then we had kubernetes we had both
both uh aspects of storage and then our
container product
um a year later I'm sorry just about a
year later
um over over time and when you look at
it from how that increased the mrr this
customer went from 276 dollars of spend
to over 200 to about 200 000 a month
um over the course of about a year and a
half right maybe two years and so
the idea here is you don't have to layer
on sales
um on every single customer but you
should layer on sales where it makes
sense and if we're doing the right work
or doing the right enrichment from a
perspective of propensity you know it
will become highly efficient and there's
a there's a Continuum or if you will an
end-to-end view of how the customer
perceives the platform and comes in uh
via either self-server inbound to their
overall customer experience you know
into support and then round and round we
go right I mean you know support tickets
yes and this customer is looking to do
XYZ can we do that we bring in technical
knowledge
um and then you know increase
credibility and Trust in order to um to
grow them on the platform so the net net
you know is lots of customers and keep
the customers
um grow their customers
um via VIA a very deliberate success
motion
yeah so to kind of boil it down
um and then we'll open up to questions
here
you know don't be afraid to look me on
Enterprise uh as you saw or you know in
my past I've worked across uh across
many segments
um and SMD is you know again that five
velocity but also it is expecting a
different value prop
um and you know when you look at kind of
your customer segmentation and or how
you go to market you know don't Typecast
ourselves into you know what we feel are
go to market structure should be take an
outside in look to your customers
Journey on how they want to consume and
then you know that'll be an eye-opening
um eye-opening experience I believe as
it was for us and then lastly you know
just just a friendly reminder here like
it it
empowering and enabling your customers
success will just help grow them over
time it's a fairly obvious statement
but you know the sale starts after the
yeah after the pen is the the ink is dry
if you will right that's where the real
sale starts um we've landed them we've
done the hard work
um and you know I kind of always part my
team like we've done the hard work to
land them on our platform they've
trusted us and now the real work begins
to um to make sure that they stay and
that they're successful and continue to
build credibility
um with our overall teams so with that
that's what I have to in part today and
you know certainly uh open here to q a
perfect thank you so much for sharing
that we do have some questions in the
chat
digitalocean has successfully moved
globally what do you determine has been
the largest factor in this growth
well in our business you know there's a
there's a couple things we have a follow
us on model with regards to our support
right then that is not inconsistent with
um kind of a few a few mentions of
support not only being a lead Source but
you know Paramount to the overall
customer experience
um so they understand their customers
and Prospects understand you know the
the support in real time and not just uh
if you will of North american-centric
nine to five uh View the second piece is
you know we have facing the place
um go to market we have our regional
marketing teams that are really really
driving and driving uh brand awareness
but also like the value of the use cases
um as they pertain to different regions
right what what what works in San
Francisco you know does not work in
Bangalore right and so we're really
layering value there and then thirdly
you know there is a level of
infrastructure there is a level of
expertise and expectation
um that we want you know data residency
and latency to be as close as possible
um to to where a particular customer is
headquartered so I would say those are
maybe the three major major tenants
there thank you that was a super clear
way to lay that out
we have a question about sales how is it
determined when sales gets involved what
triggers sales assisted
I'm trying to understand what tips or
Frameworks you have for others going
through the same thought process of when
sales or human should get involved
yeah it's a good question I mean every
company struggles with this
um every company that you know a
self-serve engine if you will or do it
yourself type model right up Etc what
we've done
um and by the way there was a disaster
webinar
um
gosh it was with Asana but you know
around Lair
um on top of sales I'm sorry sales on
top of self-service and at the end you
know what we do is we really look at
that data piece and what I mentioned
across that 30 000 if it's thirty
thousand or three it does not mean the
number does not matter it's every
customer that comes into your funnel
um no matter what the source
we should be applying
um data enrichment too and by data
enrichment too I don't necessarily mean
AIML it can be human it can be by any
means but you know taking even something
as simple as a Gmail
um
um email uh domain you can give you a
lot of information there are a ton of
tools out there to allow you to to
understand if this is a business you
know where where's their
um you know where's their market and and
what are they doing so at that point
yeah when we do that data enrichment we
capture all the the firmographic
information if you will that's where we
make a decision
um
um if you will sales assistant or not
that's the human way
the automated way is okay this customer
is um growing right like this customer
has bought one product they've been five
dollars or fifty dollars for three
months and now there's a hundred dollars
a hundred and twenty dollars it's a very
simple and easy trigger to say this
person and this customer warrants a
phone call and they're probably not
going to be 55 or 50 per month there's
obviously some
um some inflection point that they're
going through reach out find out what's
going on with their business it's not a
sales call it's it's Discovery and in
order to
um grab some data around okay what
what's going on what why they increase
value
great
um a follow-up question what is your
Tech stack to enrich those leads data
points
yeah it's a fair question we use a
number of different things I would say
the the three major ones are LinkedIn
sales now
gym info
crunch face
so those are really the three major
um
yeah three major Tech uh and tools you
know I always anchor on people process
tools technology
um tools is one of them that can really
make a difference across how you look at
that you know and by the way it's not
just for your own business it's for your
customers sake as well
um you know especially if you're doing
the rich of data and you you feel as
though okay this is not necessarily they
they will appreciate you not wasting
their time by by picking up the phone
um as opposed and you know in addition
to obviously becoming application
this leads really nicely into the next
question how are your customer service
and support teams customized to support
smbs
yeah they go through a rigorous
um
training on an outside and 360 view of
what it means to be an SMB
and you know so a lot of where we look
at you know kind of our individual
success and support they are different
but you know for the sake of the
question I'll let them together
um success and support is you know it
and it's very simple
um pretend you own a business and you
want to do you want to do business with
digitalocean you run into it into an
issue or whatever
um how does it what does that mean how
do you want to be treated
um and then what are expectations as far
as slas slos believe it or not you know
the the SMB
it just needs an answer faster
and you know because in in many cases
you know being it being if you will a
utility quote unquote infrastructure we
always kind of you know we always take
the the the Viewpoint that you know we
are the utility we have to stay up
you know and if things go awry either by
or undoing or customers or miscoding or
whatever and we have to support because
their their business is Reliant upon
this infrastructure much like you know
this phone call this Zoom call is not
you know possible without power and so
um it's the same sort of attitude so we
take a very customer-centric empathetic
approach
yeah that sounds like quite a great
training
um
we have a question which team does the
non-sales discovery call when growth
trips The Wire
we we have
um it's interesting you know we we do a
couple of things
the
we do it either via
um our onboarding team right so they're
already a customer
right I mean it's not like this is a net
new
um Prospect if you will so their
customer and this onboarding team
they're really charged with finding out
the why
and so it's not necessary we have a team
of 30 or so you know again they're also
doing that data enrichment by the way so
there's Continuum there
um so they're empowered to say hey like
tell me why tell me why this product and
why this multi-product tax Etc and
customers are very open about it yeah
because you're not you're again you're
not trying to sell anything you're
trying to understand and and they
understand that you know you're you're
capturing value in order to inflect
again as I mentioned like an interlocked
product roadmap and that's a very
important distinction it's like hey I
noticed you're growing what else can I
sell you versus I notice you're growing
tell me why and tell me how that's
inflecting your business
uh and and there's there's a there's a
mutual understanding and appreciation
for caring about their business and why
they're growing as opposed to you know
the next West Bank
agreed
um people just want to be heard
uh lots of companies including digital
ocean struggle initially with adding
sales to their self-serve motion what
are the most common mistakes you've seen
yeah I mean I've been through three of
them right uh with Sangria Twilight and
digitalocean
um
unequivocally it's it the the biggest
mistake is just a lack of orchestration
and communication around the customer
Journey
and that starts as simple as okay we're
you know we brought a customer in and
you know sales Globs themselves onto it
or whatever
um you know using somewhat dramatic term
there but and and fix it quote unquote
takes the credit
um to something as simple as a campaign
orchestration you know we might run a
campaign on X and the salesperson's
talking about why and the customer opted
out but we call them something else and
so that's that kind of orchestration
coordination layer that can be lacking
thankfully I've worked for three
companies where we've shored that up
very very quickly and excellent Partners
in our in our Revenue marketing stream
across that but it is a it is a very
real thing so I would say
um overall coordination and
orchestration and making sure that the
end-to-end experience is shored up
um you know in my world you know or sap
of red marketing is is you know we we
talk five times a day right and we're
making sure that we're perfect again
coordinated at the 10 000 foot level so
that our teams
um Can execute and execute with
efficiency but then also execute with
lack without confusion
foreign
[Music]